# Micro:bit Pendulum Period Modeling
  These set of programs allow a user to collect angular position and acceleration data using a micro:bit attached to the bob of pendulum to model the motion of pendulums of different lengths. Angular position over time as well as angular acceleration over time will be plotted for each length. The period will also be generated for each length. The length of the pendulum can be graphed by the period on a log-log graph, and a relationship will be observed between length and period of a pendulum. This can be compared to a simulation program, which will simulate the motion of pendulum with given length values and calculate a period. These values can also be graphed on a log-log graph, and the graph of the simulated values can be compared to the real-world data to determine how well the pendulum model's an ideal pendulum.

## Instructions

1. Collect Real-World Data:
  Construct a pendulum and attach a micro:bit to the end. Flash the "1_microbit_data_collection.py" code to the microbit, disconnect the microbit, and push the reset button. Start the pendulum at a 90 degree angle. Pushing A will start the time and acceleration collection and B will stop data collection. After each trial (using a pendulum of a unique length), attach the microbit back to the computer and drag the file it has created on to the computer. Repeat five files times, each time saving the file with the length of the pendulum used. 

2. Collect Simulation Data: 
  Open "2_microbit_pendulum_simulation". To observe simulation data at different pendulum length, change the variable l (units: meters) to the according length. The angular acceleration value, ang_acc, would obtain a certain value that is related to l. Consequently, the other two variables of concern, angular velocity (ang_vel) and angular position (ang_pos). In this simulation, an arbiturary angular position has been assignment (pi/2) as the initial value. The list is then appended using linspace, and the collection of simulation data was plotted in 3 graphs. Make sure to take note of the average period value returned in the end. 

3. Graph Real-World and Simulation Position and Acceleration Data: To graph the real-world and simulation data open "3_pendulum_results_analysis.py". It will open a file and plot data from it. Edit the file name to represent the file that needs to be imported. The filed will be converted to an array, and it will be filtered to account for a noisy data set. It will take in time and y acceleration (note: the micro:bit is turned sideways, so the y acceleration is actually in the x direction). Time by angular position and time by angular acceleration data will be graphed, and the period will be printed at the bottom of the code.

4. Plot Pendulum Period and Length:
  To observe the relationship between a pendulum's length and its period, graph log(pendulum length) by log(pendulum period) using the "4_plotting_period_and_length.py" file. Input the various lengths of the pendulums used in each trial into the list called Length_of_Pendulum, and input the various periods that correspond to each length into the list called Period_of_Pendulum. When the program is run, it will generate a graph of log(pendulum length) by log(pendulum period), which will show the direct or indirect relationship between length and period of a pendulum. You must input values for the real-world data into the list and run the code to get the first graph, and then input the simulation data over the old data into the same list and run it again. Looking at both these graphs will demonstrate the difference between real-world pendulum length and period data and simulated pendulum length and period data.
